README.md, before:

﻿# renrakun (れんらくん)

Tap-first household request app.

家庭内の「買ってほしい / 行きたい」依頼を、専用タッチパネルでサッと共有できます。
会員登録なしで、すばやく共有できるPWAです。

- **App URL:** [renrakun.pages.dev](https://renrakun.pages.dev)
- **日本語ドキュメント:** [README.ja.md](README.ja.md)
- **English documentation:** [README.en.md](README.en.md)

## Feature Gallery / 特徴ギャラリー

### No email signup required (display name + group passphrase) / メール登録不要（表示名 + 合言葉で利用可能）
Display name + passphrase only. Invite link sharing is built-in.

表示名 + 合言葉だけで開始できます。招待リンク共有も標準対応です。

<p>
  <img src="docs/screenshots/01-onboarding-no-account-ja.png" width="48%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/02-onboarding-language-switch-en.png" width="48%">
</p>

### Member visibility / 参加メンバーの可視化
See who is in the group and who has notifications enabled.

グループ参加者と通知状態（通知OK / 未設定）を一目で確認できます。

<img src="docs/screenshots/03-dashboard-members-push-status.png" width="48%">

### Tap-only cart controls / タップ中心の操作
`+` adds, `-` reduces. Place selection is single-select and easy to clear.

`+` で追加、`-` で減算。場所選択は単一選択で、解除も簡単です。

<p>
  <img src="docs/screenshots/04-touch-panel-plus-cart.png" width="48%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/05-touch-panel-minus-cart.png" width="48%">
</p>

### Intent switch: Need to buy / Want to visit / 依頼テンプレ切替
Switch between `Need to buy` and `Want to visit`.

「買ってほしい」と「行きたい」を切り替え。`行きたい` は場所のみ送信です。

<img src="docs/screenshots/06-intent-visit.png" width="48%">

### Admin customization / 作成者によるカスタム管理
Group creator can add/archive-delete custom tabs, items, and places.

グループ作成者は、カスタムタブ・アイテム・場所を追加/削除できます。

<p>
  <img src="docs/screenshots/07-admin-custom-tab-item-store.png" width="48%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/08-store-custom-delete-flow.png" width="48%">
</p>

### Inbox status workflow / 受信箱ステータス管理
Track requests through `Requested` -> `In progress` -> `Completed`.

受信箱で `依頼中` -> `対応中` -> `完了` を管理できます。

<p>
  <img src="docs/screenshots/09-inbox-status-flow.png" width="32%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/09-inbox-status-flow2.png" width="32%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/09-inbox-status-flow3.png" width="32%">
</p>

### Lock-screen push summary / ロック画面通知（要約）
Push shows a concise summary (who + what) to reduce app-open friction.

ロック画面で「誰が・何を」を要約表示し、確認の手間を減らします。

<p>
  <img src="docs/screenshots/10-lock-screen-push-summary.png" width="32%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/10-lock-screen-push-summary2.png" width="32%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/10-lock-screen-push-summary3.png" width="32%">
</p>

## Notes / 補足

- This README is a visual overview (screenshot-first). See [README.en.md](README.en.md) for technical details and usage.
- このREADMEは、機能を直感的に伝えるため画像中心に構成されています。技術的な詳細は [README.ja.md](README.ja.md) を参照してください。

Commit message:

docs: finalize archival status with explicit domain shutdown and disclaimer

README.md, after:

﻿## ⚠️ プロジェクトのステータス / Project Status: Archived

**本プロジェクトは現在アーカイブ（開発および運用を恒久的に終了）されています。**
**This repository is kept for archival purposes as a demonstration of software engineering practices.**

- **運用の停止 (Status)**: Cloudflare上でのサービス提供（`renrakun.pages.dev` およびAPI）は恒久的に終了しており、Cloudflareのデプロイ（Workers/Pages/D1）は削除済みのため、現在アクセスできません。
  *(The live site and API services on Cloudflare, including `renrakun.pages.dev`, have been permanently discontinued. The Cloudflare deployments (Workers/Pages/D1) have been removed, and the service is no longer accessible.)*
- **補足 (Note)**: 本プロジェクトは限定的な検証目的でのみ利用しました。
  *(This project was only used for limited testing purposes.)*
- **目的 (Purpose)**: 本リポジトリは、個人開発のポートフォリオ（設計・実装の記録）として公開しています。
  *(This codebase serves as a portfolio piece showing the implementation of a full-stack application.)*
- **免責事項 (Disclaimer)**: 本コードは現状有姿で提供され、明示または黙示を問わず一切の保証を行いません。法令で許容される範囲で、本コードの利用に起因するいかなる損害についても作者は責任を負いません。
  *(Provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, express or implied. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the author is not liable for any damages arising from its use.)*

---

# renrakun (れんらくん)

Tap-first household request app.

家庭内の「買ってほしい / 行きたい」依頼を、専用タッチパネルでサッと共有できます。
会員登録なしで、すばやく共有できるPWAです。

- **日本語ドキュメント:** [README.ja.md](README.ja.md)
- **English documentation:** [README.en.md](README.en.md)

## Feature Gallery / 特徴ギャラリー

*(※ スクリーンショット内の表示名および依頼内容はデモ用のサンプルデータです / Display names and contents in screenshots are sample data.)*

### No email signup required (display name + group passphrase) / メール登録不要（表示名 + 合言葉で利用可能）
Display name + passphrase only. Invite link sharing is built-in.

表示名 + 合言葉だけで開始できます。招待リンク共有も標準対応です。

<p>
  <img src="docs/screenshots/01-onboarding-no-account-ja.png" width="48%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/02-onboarding-language-switch-en.png" width="48%">
</p>

### Member visibility / 参加メンバーの可視化
See who is in the group and who has notifications enabled.

グループ参加者と通知状態（通知OK / 未設定）を一目で確認できます。

<img src="docs/screenshots/03-dashboard-members-push-status.png" width="48%">

### Tap-only cart controls / タップ中心の操作
`+` adds, `-` reduces. Place selection is single-select and easy to clear.

`+` で追加、`-` で減算。場所選択は単一選択で、解除も簡単です。

<p>
  <img src="docs/screenshots/04-touch-panel-plus-cart.png" width="48%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/05-touch-panel-minus-cart.png" width="48%">
</p>

### Intent switch: Need to buy / Want to visit / 依頼テンプレ切替
Switch between `Need to buy` and `Want to visit`.

「買ってほしい」と「行きたい」を切り替え。`行きたい` は場所のみ送信です。

<img src="docs/screenshots/06-intent-visit.png" width="48%">

### Admin customization / 作成者によるカスタム管理
Group creator can add/archive-delete custom tabs, items, and places.

グループ作成者は、カスタムタブ・アイテム・場所を追加/削除できます。

<p>
  <img src="docs/screenshots/07-admin-custom-tab-item-store.png" width="48%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/08-store-custom-delete-flow.png" width="48%">
</p>

### Inbox status workflow / 受信箱ステータス管理
Track requests through `Requested` -> `In progress` -> `Completed`.

受信箱で `依頼中` -> `対応中` -> `完了` を管理できます。

<p>
  <img src="docs/screenshots/09-inbox-status-flow.png" width="32%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/09-inbox-status-flow2.png" width="32%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/09-inbox-status-flow3.png" width="32%">
</p>

### Lock-screen push summary / ロック画面通知（要約）
Push shows a concise summary (who + what) to reduce app-open friction.

ロック画面で「誰が・何を」を要約表示し、確認の手間を減らします。

<p>
  <img src="docs/screenshots/10-lock-screen-push-summary.png" width="32%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/10-lock-screen-push-summary2.png" width="32%">
  <img src="docs/screenshots/10-lock-screen-push-summary3.png" width="32%">
</p>

## Notes / 補足

- This README is a visual overview (screenshot-first). See [README.en.md](README.en.md) for technical details and usage.
- このREADMEは、機能を直感的に伝えるため画像中心に構成されています。技術的な詳細は [README.ja.md](README.ja.md) を参照してください。
